In the previous video, we already configure
etherchannel LACP and PAGP.
That 2 protocol is layer 2 etherchannel, this
is means that we configure trunk in the etherchannel.
Remember that before we configure etherchannel,
we configure trunk first.
Now, in this video we are going to learn
about layer 3 etherchannel.
In layer 3 etherchannel, the interface will
not configured as trunk, but we will configure
an ip address in the etherchannel.
And one thing that you need to know is layer
3 etherchannel only work on layer 3 switch.
So we can not configure layer 3 etherchannel
in switch 2960,
Okay let’s just start, let’s create a
new topology, import two 3560 switch.
And then connecting this 2 switch.
Because this will become layer 3 etherchannel,
so we will configure an ip address.
Let’s say in multi layer switch 1, the ip
address is 10.10.10.1,
and in multi layer switch 2, the ip address is 10.10.10.2.
Let’s start the configuration, enable, here
we can see that the interface is fa0/1-3,
so interface range fa0/1-3, if we want to
configure an ip address in the multi layer
switch, we need to disable the switchport,
the command is no switchport.
Next let’s configure the etherchannel, channel-group
1 mode and then question mark,
to configure layer 3 etherchannel, we can use mode on.
Here we can see creating port channel 1, this
is because we use id 1 for the etherchannel.
Next let’s configure the ip address.
We will configure the ip address on the etherchannel
interface, so interface po1, ip address 10.10.10.1
255.255.255.0,
Okay now we have done in multi layer switch 1,
let’s move to multi layer switch 2.
No, enable, configure terminal, interface
range fa0/1-3.
First let’s disable the switchport, no switchport,
Next let’s configure the etherchannel, channel-group
1 mode on.
Next let’s configure the ip address, interface
po1, ip address 10.10.10.2 255.255.255.0,
Okay now we have done configuring layer 3
etherchannel, let’s check it, do show etherchannel summary,
here we have port channel 1, Uppercase
R and uppercase U, uppercase R means Layer 3
and uppercase U means in use,
The protocol is none, and all of interface
is in port channel.
Let’s also check on multi layer switch 2,
do show etherchannel summary.
Here also uppercase R and uppercase U, this
is means layer 3 and in use.
Now let’s test ping, from multi layer switch
2 ping to multi layer switch 1, do ping 10.10.10.1,
okay here we can see that the result is success.
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.